@page { size: 8.5in 11in; margin-left: 0.89in; margin-right: 0.42in; margin-top: 0.36in; margin-bottom: 0.36in }
		p { line-height: 115%; text-align: left; orphans: 2; widows: 2; margin-bottom: 0.1in; direction: ltr; background: transparent }
		a:link { color: #000080; text-decoration: underline } 1 PR-PL:
A Novel Transfer Learning Framework with Prototypical
Representation based Pairwise Learning for
EEG-Based Emotion Recognition Rushuang
Zhou a,b,1,∗ ,
Zhiguo Zhang a,b,c,d,e,1, † ,
Hong Fu f, ‡ ,
Li Zhang a,b, § ,
Linling Li a,b, ¶ , Gan
Huang a,b, II ,
Yining Dong g ,∗∗ ,
Fali Li h,i, †† ,
Xin Yang a,b, ‡‡ and
Zhen Liang a,b,x a School
		of Biomedical Engineering, Health Science Center, Shenzhen
		University, Shenzhen, China b Guangdong
		Provincial Key Laboratory of Biomedical Measurements and Ultrasound
		Imaging, Shenzhen, China c chool
		of Computer Science and Technology, Harbin Insti- tute of
		Technology, Shenzhen, China d Marshall
		Laboratory of Biomedical Engineering, Shenzhen, China e Peng
		Cheng Laboratory, Shenzhen, China f Department
		of Mathematics and Information Technology, The Education University
		of Hong Kong, Hong Kong g School
		of Data Science, City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong h The
		Clinical Hospital of Chengdu Brain Science Institute, MOE Key Lab
		for Neuroinformation, University of Electronic Science and
		Technology of China, China i School
		of Life Science and Technology, Center for Information in Medicine, University of Electronic Science and Technology of China,
		China Email: ∗ 2018222087@szu.edu.cn , † zgzhang@szu.edu.cn , ‡ hfu@eduhk.hk , § lzhang@szu.edu.cn , ¶ lilinling@szu.edu.cn , " huanggan@szu.edu.cn , ∗∗ yinidong@cityu.edu.hk , †† fali.li@uestc.edu.cn , ‡‡ yangxinknow@gmail.com , x janezliang@szu.edu.cn arXiv:2202.06509v3
		[cs.HC] 6 May 2022 Abstract —Affective
	brain-computer interfaces based on elec­ troencephalography
	(EEG) is an important branch in the field of
	affective computing. However, individual differences and noisy labels
	seriously limit the effectiveness and generalizability of EEG-based
	emotion recognition models. In this paper, we propose a
	novel transfer learning framework with Prototypical Repre­ sentation
	based Pairwise Learning (PR-PL) to learn discrimi­ native
	and generalized prototypical representations for emotion revealing
	across individuals and formulate emotion recognition as
	pairwise learning for alleviating the reliance on precise label information.
	More specifically, a prototypical learning-based ad­ versarial
	discriminative domain adaptation method is developed to
	encode the inherent emotion-related semantic structure of EEG data,
	while pairwise learning with an adaptive pseudo- labeling
	method is developed to achieve a reliable and stable model
	learning with noisy labels. Through domain adaptation, feature
	representations of source and target domains are aligned on
	a shared feature space, while the feature separability of both source
	and target domains is also considered. The characterized prototypical
	representations are evident with a high feature concentration
	within one single emotion category and a high feature
	separability across different emotion categories. Extensive experiments
	are conducted on two benchmark databases under four
	cross-validation evaluation protocols (cross-subject cross- session,
	cross-subject within-session, within-subject cross-session, and
	within-subject within-session). The experimental results demonstrate
	the superiority of the proposed PR-PL against the state-of-the-arts
	under all four evaluation protocols, which shows the
	effectiveness and generalizability of PR-PL in dealing with the
	ambiguity of EEG responses in affective studies. The source code is
	available at https://github.com/KAZABANA/PR-PL . Index
	Terms —Electroencephalography;
	Emotion Recognition; Prototypical
	Representation; Pairwise Learning; Transfer Learn­ ing. I.
	I NTRODUCTION 1 Equal
	contributions. A FFECTIVE
	computing is a fast growing interdisciplinary research
	field and is attracting researchers’ attention from
	different areas including computer science, neuroscience, psychology,
	and signal processing [1]. Recently, electroen­ cephalography
	(EEG) based emotion recognition has become an increasingly important
	topic for affective computing and human sentiment analysis [2], [3].
	A proper design of EEG- based
	emotion recognition models is helpful for facilitating the
	data processing, benefiting discriminant feature charac­ terization,
	and lightening the model performance. Currently, there
	exist two main critical issues in EEG-based emotion recognition.
	One is individual
	differences :
	how to build a generalized
	affective computing model which could tolerate the
	remarkable individual differences in the simultaneously collected
	EEG signals; and another is noisy
	label learning : how
	to train a reliable and stable affective computing model which
	is less reliant on the subjective feedback. In
	recent years, more and more researchers have focused on applying
	transfer learning methods to alleviate the indi­ vidual
	differences in EEG signals [4]–[9] and improve feature invariant
	representation [10]–[12]. Considering the individuals with
	and without labels (termed as source
	domain and target domain ),
	transfer learning tries to minimize the distribution difference
	between the source and target domains by approxi­mately
	satisfying the assumption of independent and identical distribution
	and can consequently realize a higher recognition performance on the
	target domain. Through a domain-shifting strategy, the invariant
	feature representations across different domains
	are learned and the relationships among the learned features,
	data distribution, and labels are explored. For ex­ ample,
	Li et
	al .
	[5] proposed a multisource transfer learning method with two
	transfer learning stages. In the first stage, appropriate
	samples were selected from the existing source 2 domain.
	In the second stage, a style transfer mapping was implemented
	to alleviate the differences between the selected source
	samples and the unknown target samples. The results showed
	the proposed transfer method outperformed the non-transfer method
	with an improvement of 12.72% on the public SEED
	database [13] with a three-class classification problem (negative,
	neutral, and positive). Inspired by neuroscience findings
	that different emotions would lead to different brain reactions,
	Li et
	al .
	[6] proposed a novel R2G-STNN network to integrate
	the EEG spatial-temporal dynamics at the local and global
	brain areas and realize an efficient emotion recognition performance
	together with a domain shift learning. More details
	about current EEG-based emotion recognition models with
	the transfer learning algorithms are presented in Section II. For
	video-evoking EEG-emotion experiments, subjects may not
	always be able to accurately react to the intended emotions, and
	at the same time may not be able to accurately describe and
	feedback on their emotional changes. This would bring label
	noise to the emotional information annotation of EEG samples
	and further lead to a negative impact on the model performance
	[14]. To tackle this issue, Zhong et
	al .
	[8] devel­ oped
	an emotion-aware distribution learning method (RGNN), in
	which they blurred the label information by changing the one-hot
	label representation (1 , 0 , 0) to ( 1 - 2€
	3 , 2€
	3 , 0 ) and trained
	the model to be less sensitive label noise. However, the
	model performance would greatly rely on the selection of
	f value, and an optimal f value selection could be differ­ ent
	for different databases and different individuals. Current EEG-based
	emotion recognition models are mainly based on pointwise
	learning ,
	which heavily relies on precisely labeled data.
	Contrarily, pairwise
	learning makes
	it possible to model the
	relative associations between pairs of instances and to efficiently
	encode the proximity among samples with less reliance
	on labeling. Thus, pointwise learning has achieved tremendous
	success in a number of real-world applications [15]–[18]. To
	further improve the effectiveness and generalizability of
	EEG-based emotion recognition models and eliminate the negative
	effects from individual differences and label noises, in
	this paper, we formulate the emotion recognition tasks as a pairwise
	learning problem and propose a novel transfer learning
	framework with prototypical representation based pairwise
	learning (which is termed as PR-PL below).
	Here, we
	model the relative relationship between pairs of EEG samples
	in terms of prototypical representations, which is advantageous
	to pointwise learning when the labeling task is difficult
	and even the provided labels are wrong labels [19]. The
	major novelties of the proposed PR-PL are summarized as
	follows. (1) We formulate emotion recognition as pairwise learning
	to replace the classifier and greatly alleviate the label
	dependence on emotion labels. The pairwise learning provides
	us an alternative way to measure whether two EEG signals
	belong to the same emotion category without the reliance
	on the precise labeling information. The extensive experimental
	results on two well-known emotional databases (SEED
	[13] and SEED-IV [20]) prove the proposed PR-PL is a
	more accurate model than the state-of-the-arts for solving the EEG-based
	emotion recognition tasks under different applica­ tion
	environments (cross-subject cross-session, cross-subject single-session,
	within-subject cross-session, and within-subject single-session).
	(2) We propose a novel prototypical learning- based
	adversarial discriminative domain adaptation method to
	explore latent variables of emotion categories, encode the semantic
	structure of EEG data, and learn subject-generalized prototypical
	representations for emotion revealing across in­ dividuals.
	The characterized prototypical representations show a high feature
	concentration within one single emotion cate­ gory
	and a high feature separability across different emotion categories.
	(3) Different from the existing transfer learning methods
	that only focus on feature separability in the source domain,
	we consider the feature separability of both source and
	target domains through the end-to-end domain adversarial training
	to further enhance the model effectiveness and gener­ alizability. II.
	R ELATED W ORK The
	existing EEG-based emotion recognition models with the
	transfer learning algorithms can be generally categorized into two
	types. Non-deep
		transfer learning models. Pan et
		al .
		[21] proposed
		a transfer component analysis (TCA) algorithm to
		reduce the marginal distribution difference between the source
		and target domains, in which the transfer information was
		learned in a reproducing kernel Hilbert space through maximizing
		mean discrepancy. Zheng and Lu [22] introduced two
		types of subject-to-subject transfer methods to deal with the
		challenge of the individual differences in EEG signal processing.
		One was to explore a shared common feature space underlying
		source and target domains using TCA and kernel principal analysis
		(KPCA), and another was to construct multi­ ple
		personalized classifiers on the source domain and map the classifier
		parameters to the target domain using transductive parameter
		transfer (TPT). These non-deep transfer learning strategies
		show the possibility to bridge the discrepancy across two
		domains with improved performance on the target domain. However,
		due to the small capacity and low complexity, the model
		accuracy and stability are still limited, which fails to satisfy
		the requirements of affective brain-computer interfaces (aBCI)
		in practical applications. Deep
		transfer learning models. Most
		of the existing affective
		models are based on deep transfer learning methods built
		with domain-adversarial neural network (DANN) pro­ posed
		in [23]. The main idea of DANN is to find a shared feature
		representation for source and target domains with indistinguishable
		distribution differences and also maintain the
		predictive ability of the estimated features on the source samples
		for a specific classification task. Li et
		al .
		[24] was the first
		to introduce DANN in aBCI. Benefiting from the powerful feature
		representation ability of deep networks and the high efficiency
		of adversarial learning in distributed adaptation, the results
		showed that DANN based aBCI system was superior to
		other methods. The following aBCI systems could be con­ sidered
		as a series of DANN-based models, which generally start
		from two directions to improve the DANN performance in
		solving EEG-based emotion recognition tasks. 3 • Incorporating
	the prior knowledge of neuroscience and
	brain anatomy with DANN. Inspired
	by the neu­ roscience
	findings of the asymmetry property of the left and
	right hemispheres in emotional responses, Yang et
	al .
	[25] proposed a bi-hemisphere domain adversarial neural network
	(BiDANN), in which a global and two local domain
	discriminators were designed to learn discrimi­ nant
	features from each cerebral hemisphere related to emotion
	perception and also improve the feature stability to
	the variation of different domains. The experiments on the
	SEED database demonstrated that BiDANN achieved higher
	emotion recognition performance than DANN. Considering
	the emotional responses from different brain regions
	would be varied, Yang et
	al .
	[6] proposed an R2G-STNN
	(regional to global-spatial-temporal neural network)
	to integrate the spatial-temporal information from local and global
	brain regions under importance guidance
	and characterize hierarchical feature represen­ tations.
	Similarly, under an assumption that not all EEG channels
	are equally important in emotion recognition tasks, Du et
	al .
	[26] integrated attention mechanism, long-short-term
	memory (LSTM), and DANN to pro­ pose
	an attention-based LSTM with domain discriminator (ATDD-LSTM)
	and characterize the nonlinear relations among
	different EEG channels in a data-driven approach and
	optimally select informative emotion-related chan­ nels. • Incorporating
	the probability distribution with DANN. To
	deal with the training instability of DANN, Luo et
	al .
	[27] introduced WGAN-GP (Wasserstein gen­ erative
	adversarial network with gradient penalty) to nar­ row
	down the distance between the marginal probability distributions
	of different subjects. The results showed the model stability was
	improved and a better cross- subject
	EEG-based emotion recognition was achieved. However,
	current DANN-based models only consider the
	marginal distribution differences but ignore the joint distribution
	differences of different domains. To address this
	problem, Li et
	al .
	[28] introduced a joint domain adaptation
	network (JLNN), where the joint distribution adaptation
	(JDA) method was incorporated with a unified framework
	of task-invariant features (MDA) and task- specific
	features (CDA). Although
	the above models have achieved higher accuracies compared
	to the original model with DANN in emotion recog­nition tasks,
	there still exist three major technical challenges. First,
	the learned feature representation is susceptible to noise interference
	from both source and target domains and would further
	affect the model generalizability [29], [30]. Second, the
	existing models only focus on the feature separability in
	the source domain but ignore the feature separability in the
	target domain. The current DANN-based models mainly concern
	the emotion classification loss in the source domain, which
	would lead to the over-fitting of source domain data and
	the decrease of classification ability on target domain data. Third,
	the existing algorithms largely rely on a large amount of
	labeled source domain data. However, in practical EEG TABLE
	I: Frequently used notations and descriptions. N otation Description S \ T source \ target
	domain x s \ x t source \ target
	feature y s \ y t source \ target
	label N s \ N t number
	of source \ target
	samples D s \ D t the
	source \ target
	dataset f
	( · ) sample
	feature extractor d
	( · ) domain
	discriminator h
	( · ) bi-linear
	operation θ f the
	parameter of the feature extractor f
	( · ) θ d the
	parameter of the discriminator d
	( · ) S the
	parameter of the bi-linear operation h
	( · ) p centroid l predict
	label a pplications,
	it is difficult to collect accurate labels for each single
	EEG trial. III.
	M ETHODOLOGY Suppose
	the EEG trials in the source domain S and target
	domain T are
	given as D s = { X s ,
	Y s } and D t = { X t ,Y t } ,
	where { X s ,Y s } = { ( x s i ,y s i ) } N s i=0 and { X t ,
	Y t } = { ( x t i ,
	y t i ) } N t i=0 .
	Here, X s
	i and
	X t
	i are
	EEG samples, and
	Y s i and
	Y t i are
	the corresponding emotion labels. To make
	the narrative clearer, the frequently used notations are summarized
	in Table I. As shown in Fig. 1, the proposed PR-PL includes three
	losses (domain adversarial loss, pairwise learning
	loss on source domain, and pairwise learning loss on target
	domain) and two main parts (prototypical representation and
	pairwise learning). In the prototypical representation, three types
	of features are defined. The characterized features f ( X s ) or
	f ( X t ) from
	the EEG samples are termed as sample
	fea­ tures ,
	which are forced to be as indistinguishable as possible from
	the source and target domains. Under an assumption that any emotion
	could be represented by a prototype via prototyp­ ical
	learning, the prototype
	features of
	each emotion category are
	learned based on the sample features f ( X s ) and
	Y s from the
	source domain. The interaction relationships between the sample
	features and prototype features are measured and the interaction
	features are
	characterized which will be used in
	the following pairwise learning. In the pairwise learning, the
	pair relationships on both source and target domains are explored.
	As the information about Y t are
	unknown during model
	training, an adaptive thresholding method is developed for
	valid pair selection and pseudo label generation. A.
	Sample feature extraction To
	make both source and target data satisfy the assumption of
	independent and identical distribution and obey the same distribution,
	we characterize the sample features based on a
	domain adversarial training introduced in DANN. Here, the
	distribution difference between the source domain and the
	target domain is alleviated and the sample features with domain
	invariant properties are characterized. Through this process,
	the individual differences in EEG signals could be alleviated
	and the generalization ability of the models could be
	improved [6], [25]–[27]. Specifically, the domain difference Subjective
	Feedbacks Prototypical
	Representation Pairwise
	Learning Source
	Domain EEG
	Recordings Preprocessing Target
	Domain Coding Prototype
	Features Prototype Features Sample Features Prototype
	Features Prototype Features 0,
	0.95, 0.05 0.93,
	0.04, 0.03 0.87, 0.12, 0.01 0.01,
	0, 0.99 ... 0.02,
	0.96, 0.02 Pairwise Learning Pairwise Learning Pairwise Learning Supervised
	Pairwise Loss Sample
	Features Feature
	Extractor Discriminator Domain
	Adversarial Loss Sample Features Prototype
	Features Bilinear
	Interaction Interaction
	Features EEG
	Recordings Preprocessing Discriminator Feature
	Extractor Prototype
	Features 0.26,
	0.55, 0.19 0.25, 0.32, 0.43 0.16, 0.70, 0.14 0.32,
	0.24, 0.44 ... 0.30,
	0.09, 0.61 Adaptive Thresholding Valid
	Pairs Pseudo
	Labels Sample Features Sample
	Features Sample Features Interaction
	Features Categories Clustering Bilinear
	Interaction Unsupervised
	Pairwise Loss Samples 0,
	1, 0 1, 0, 0 1, 0, 0 0, 0, 1 0,
	1, 0 ... 4 Fig.
1: The proposed PR-PL framework. b log ( 1 − d ( f ( x t ))) . i (1) In
		the training process, we adopt the end-to-end training method
		[23], and implement the domain adversarial training by introducing
		a gradient reversal layer. The feature extractor f ( · ) maximizes
		the classification ability to enhance emotion recog­ nition
		performance and at the same time, the discriminator d ( · ) minimizes
		the domain discrimination to reduce the distribution difference
		between the source domain and target domain. The final
		domain adversarial training objective function is defined as L disc ( 9 f ,
					9 d )
					= − ~ N s i=0 log d ( f ( x s i )) − ~ N t i=0 etween the source domain sample feature f ( X s ) and
	the target
	domain sample feature f ( X t ) are
	minimized by adopt­ ing
	domain adversarial training. Here, f ( · ) is
	the designed feature
	extractor for extracting the sample features from EEG signals.
	A discriminator network d ( · ) with
	the parameter 9 d is
	introduced to distinguish whether the characterized sample features
	(f ( X s ) or
	f ( X t ) )
	come from the source domain ( S ) or
	the target domain ( T ).
	Its loss function is a standard two- category
	cross-entropy loss function, given as min
		max θ f θ d L s classifier ( 9 f ) − A L disc ( 9 f ,
	9 d ) , (2) which
	is termed as domain
	adversarial loss in
	Fig. 1. Here, L s classifier ( 9 f ) is
	the classification loss to measure the classifica­ tion
	ability in source domain. In this paper, L s classifier ( 9 f ) will be
	realized by pairwise learning on source and target domains introduced
	in Section III-D and III-E below. L disc ( 9 f ,
	9 d ) is
	the adversarial loss for the discriminator to be trained to distinguish
	the sample features characterized from source and target domains. 9 f and
	9 d are
	the parameters of f ( · ) and
	d ( · ) . A
	is a balanced hyperparameter for ensuring the stability of domain
	adversarial, which is given by a exponential growth method
	as 2 1 .	(3) A =
	1 − exp( − p ) Here,
	p is a factor related to the training round, given by a ratio
	of the current training round to the maximum training round. B.
	Prototype feature extraction We
	assume that there exists a prototype for each emotion category.
	Through prototypical learning, the prototype features are
	learned to indicate the representation property of every single
	emotion category. Based on the sample features ex­ tracted
	from different subjects under different emotions, we could
	consider these sample features are distributed around the prototype
	features. In other words, for each emotion category, the
	prototype features could be considered the ”center of mass” of
	all the sample features. From the perspective of a probability distribution,
	the prototype feature of an emotion category can
	be regarded as the mean value of the sample feature distribution
	of the emotion, and the variance of the distribution is
	caused by the non-stationary EEG, including but not limited to
	individual differences. Assume that the sample features under an
	emotion category c obey the Gaussian distribution N ( µ c ,
	o 2 ) .
	The prototype features of the emotion category c c could
	be calculated as the mean vector µ c of the distribution. For
	the source domain data { X s ,
	Y s } = { ( x i ,
	y i ) } N s i=0 ,
	the corresponding
	sample features are characterized by the feature extractor
	f ( · ) ,
	given as f ( x i ) (defined
	in Section III-A). The prototype
	feature vector of the emotion category c can be calculated
	by averaging all the sample features that belong to
	this category, given as 5 I c = 1 ~ f ( x s i ) , (4) | X c s | x s where
	X c s = { ( x s i ,
	y s i = c ) } Ni=0 are a collection of source domain
	data belonging to the emotion category c. | X c s | are the corresponding
	sample size in this emotion category. In other words,
	I c could be expressed as the centroid of the sample features
	of X c s .
	The mean value calculation is a widely used, simple,
	and effective noise reduction strategy, which can make the
	prototype features stronger than the sample features and help
	to alleviate the problem of the traditional DANN network being
	susceptible to related noise interference [31]. It is worth noting
	that since the calculation of the prototype features needs to
	use emotional label information, we only use the source domain
	data here for prototype feature extraction. Interaction
		feature extraction The
	traditional DANN extracted domain-invariant shared feature
	representations could be easily contaminated by the shared
	and related noises in source and target domains. In this
	paper, we introduce a bilinear interaction to measure the
	interaction relationships between the sample features and prototype
	features and extract the interaction features for the following
	pairwise learning. For a given d-dimensional sample feature
	f ( x i ) , its interaction relationship to a certain prototype feature
	I ( c ) can be measured by a bilinear transformation h ( · ) , defined
	as T h ( f ( x i ) , I c = f ( x i ) SI c , (5) where
	S ∈ R d × d is a bilinear transformation matrix with trainable
	parameters and is not restricted by symmetry or posi­tive
	definiteness. Suppose there are total n emotion categories, the
	interaction measurement between a certain sample feature f ( x i ) T and different prototype features can be represented as l i = softmax ([ h ( f ( x s i ) , I 1 ) ,..., h ( f ( x s i ) , I n )]) , (6) where { I i } n i=1 are all the prototype features. An introduction of
	the activation function (softmax) here is to add nonlinear advantages
	to the interaction measurement, enhance the feature representation
	ability, and at the same time allow the feature vector
	l to have category prediction capabilities. Pairwise
		learning on source domain Traditional
	pointwise learning algorithms often regard the feature
	vector l as the predicted label of the sample feature x i and use the cross-entropy loss function to match the label y i of x i based on supervised training. Then, if the sample features
	of one EEG trial match the prototype features of jth emotion
	category the most, the EEG trial will be assigned to
	the jth emotion category. However, this type of pointwise learning
	only focuses on the relationship between sample features
	and prototype features and ignores the relationship between
	different sample features. For example, the sample features
	belonging to different emotion categories should be separated
	from each other, and the sample features belonging to
	the same emotion category should be gathered together. To tackle
	this issue, we introduce pairwise learning to capture the inherent
	relationship of samples. For
	the source domain data { X s ,
	Y s } = { x s i ,
	y si } N s i=1 ,
	the corresponding
	loss function for pairwise learning is defined as ~ L class ( 9 )
	= L ( r s ij ,g ( x s i ,x s j ; 9 )) , (7) i,j where
	g ( x s i ,
	x s j ; 9 ) is the similarity measurement of the sam­ ples
	x s i and x s j ,
	with the parameter of 9. According to the assumption
	of pairwise learning, if y s i = y s j ,
	then r s
	ij =
	1 ; otherwise
	r s
	ij =
	0 . The loss function L ( · ) is a difference calculation
	of r ij and g ( x s i ,
	x s j ; 9 ) ,
	given by a two-category cross-entropy
	loss as L ( r,g ( x,x ; 9 )) = − r log ( g ( x,x ; 9 )) 8 − ( 1 − r j ) log ( 1 − g ( x,x ; 9 )) . In
	the training process, the label information of source domain data
	is used to define r in a supervised manner. In other words, based
	on the given information of Y s ,
	if two samples belong to
	the same emotion category, then r = 1 , otherwise r = 0 . A supervised
	r can ensure the stability of the training process and the
	generalization ability of the model. The next key question is
	how to define a proper g ( x s i ,
	x s j ; 9 ) to compute the similarity between
	x s
	i and
	x s j in terms of the characterized interaction features
	(termed as l i and l j ).
	To make the similarity results locate
	in the range of [0 , 1] and extract better and more robust feature
	representations for subsequent emotion recognition, we add
	a norm restriction on l as l l norm = . (9) 1 l 1 2 The
	similarity of l norm and l norm is calculated as the cosine i	j similarity,
	given as l s · l g ( x s , x sj ; 9 ~ = l norm i · l norm j = ~ j ~ , (10) ~ l s i ~ 2 ~ l s
	j 1 2 where · refers
	to inner product operation. As stated in Chang et
	al .
	[32], the above-mentioned norm restriction can make the
	vector l have a clustering function, and the elements in the
	vector represent the probability that the feature belongs to a
	certain category cluster. Overall, the objective function of pairwise
	learning on the source domain is defined as L s airwise ( 9 )
		= j2 i,j L
	r, 1 s · l s \ l i	j I 11 l s 11
	11 l s 11 j + 3 R , (11) II i 11 2 11 j 11 2 1 which
	is termed as supervised pairwise loss in Fig. 1. Here,
	9 = { 9 f ,
	S } ,
	9 f is the parameter of feature extractor f ( · ) , and S is the defined bilinear transformation matrix for
	interaction feature extraction. Besides, to avoid redundant feature
	extraction, a soft regularization R is introduced with a
	weight parameter of 3, which is defined as ~	~ R = ~ P T P − I ~ F . (12) Here,
	each row of the matrix P refers to the prototype feature belonging
	to one emotion category, I·I F is a F norm of the